Let's look now at the age profile of the world
population. What you can see here are a number
of curves, which are referred to as population
pyramids. I've got six of them here for six
different countries and you can see that they
have quite different shapes. On the left hand
side of each pyramid, we have a distribution
of the age of males. On the right hand side,
we have the age distribution of females.
Let's look at the population pyramid for Australia.
What we can see is that perhaps past the age
of sixty, the population of both males and
females starts to taper off and that's essentially,
the effect of people dying of old age. You
can see that around the age of thirty to thirty
five, there is a bit of a bump in the population
and that would reflect either a spike in the
birth rate thirty to thirty five years ago
or perhaps, a surge in immigration into the country.
If we look at the population pyramid for Japan,
we see that it has a very, very different
shape indeed. We can see a taper down here
and what that indicates is that the birth
rate in the country is falling off. We can
also see that the Japanese are very long lived.
There are many more people aged above eighty
than there are in Australia. We can also see
that there is this large area of people aged
above effectively forty-five. This means that
they have quite a large proportion of elderly
people in their society with not too many
young people coming in to replace them.
The curve for Germany, you can see it's also
quite different. It's got this big bulge in
the range fifty to sixty which indicates something
about a population boom that started nearly
sixty years ago.
The population pyramid for China has got a
number of quite interesting lumps and bumps,
which probably reflect many events in the
history of that country.
The population pyramid for India also has
a very unique shape and effectively, represents
the fact that the life expectancy in India
is much less than it is in countries such
as Australia, Germany, United States or Japan.
Now, what I'm going to do is to highlight
a band of ages, the ages between twenty and
sixty. These are working aged people in these
societies. So, people less than twenty are
generally being supported by their parents.
They're typically at school or at university.
Those above sixty have retired and are being
supported either by the state or by their children.
So, a really important concept in understanding
populations is what’s called the dependency
ratio; that's the ratio of the number of dependents,
that's children and older people to the number
of workers, the people who are earning a salary, doing a job and supporting the young and the old people.
For dependency ratio, a low value is good.
The dependency ratios that are plotted here
are for Australia and we can see that they
achieved a minimum in the year 2010, that's
when the dependency ratio was the best it
could possibly be. As we move forward in time,
the dependency ratio grows. In fact, it gets
worse, that means that there are more elderly
people and young people to be supported by
a smaller number of working aged people. So,
the only way we can keep our society working
the same way as it has is we need each individual
person to become more productive or we could
add robotic workers to the society, to increase
the amount of work that's going to be done
without requiring more human beings.
The bottom line is that in the future, if
we want to have the same standard of care
for young people and elderly people and it's
going to be provided by a smaller number of
working aged people, then those working aged
people need to be more productive. Each one
of those people needs to do more work than
people have to do today.
So, that's what we have to look forward to.
Each working aged person having to do more
work than people did a few years ago. The
alternative for that is we introduce into
the mix, robotic technology that means we
introduce robotic workers. So, they either
do some of the work themselves or they help
the human workers to become more productive.
Let's look here at health care versus age
and what we can see quite clearly is that
for very young people, they require certain
amount of health intervention and then for
the early years of their life, perhaps from
five through forty, they don't require too
much health intervention but above the age
of forty, people need on an individual basis,
more health interventions. It basically means
elderly people require more health care.
So, as our population gets older, graphs like
this are going to get much, much more extreme
and that presents a real challenge to us as
a society to provide the health care that
needs to be provided. If you've ever visited
a hospital, you know that they are incredibly
busy places. There’s all sorts of work going
on. There is work moving people from one ward
to another. There are surgeons performing
operations. There are people doing laundry.
There are people doing cooking. All sorts
of activities happening in a hospital employ
a lot of people and that make it expensive.
So perhaps, robot technology has a role to
play here. Robotics is already making quite
a significant impact in the area of surgery.
In fact, it's more technically teleoperation.
What we can see here are some surgeons, teleoperating or controlling small robotic implements inside
the body of a patient over here. So, these
are the robot arms that are doing the work
inside the human body. These people here are
controlling those robotic arms.
The advantage of doing this sort of surgery
is that the surgeons can be more productive
and because we make very small incisions in
the patients, they recover much more quickly
having to spend less time in hospital and
that's a net benefit to the health care system.
Other sorts of robotic technology that are
being proposed for hospitals include instruments
that move themselves automatically from one
ward to another and robots that can pick people
up, perhaps lift them from a wheelchair into
a bed or from a bed into a wheelchair. A lot
of operations in hospital involve moving people
from one place to another. People are heavy
and will require quite strong people just
to move patients around.
Humanoid robots such as Asimo shown here,
might be able to provide assistance to elderly
people in their own homes. If we can keep
people healthy and happy in their homes for
a longer period of time, then we reduce the
amount of time that they need to spend in
elderly care and that is a net advantage to
society. So perhaps, robotic helpers in the
home can assist people staying in their homes
for longer.